Let's open claw code.
Shift tab. Shift tab. Bam. We're in plan
mode. The debate is over. Claw Code is
taking over the engineering world. The
Claw Code team continues their red hot
streak as the most cracked engineering
team. How are they able to do this? The
creator of Claw Code said it himself.
Generally at Anthropic, we have this
product principle of do the simple thing
first. The team has stealth launched
plan mode. It's simple and powerful. How
does plan mode work and why does it
exist? There are two powerful ways to
use plan mode. We're going to break down
right now. One of these techniques takes
a little more time but pays you
dividends. You want to make sure you're
using the right method so you don't
waste your valuable engineering time.
Let's master claw code plan mode in 20
minutes.
No one knows clawed code better than
claw code. Let's ask it to tell us about
plan mode. Reflect on your system
prompt. Hi, can you explain plan mode?
So, with certain features, you can be
sure the system prompt has information
about it. Here, we're quite literally
asking Claude code to tell us about its
new plan mode. You can see incoming
tokens streaming in. And we look at
that. Here is the details on plan mode
right out of the system prompt. Plan
mode is a special operating mode where I
research and analyze, create a plan,
present the plan for approval, wait for
confirmation. So, this is really
important and this is interesting. I
didn't know it had an exit plan mode
tool. This might be a fresh feature that
just rolled out. The cloud code team's
engineering velocity is mind-blowing.
I'm restricted from making any file
edits, running commands, creating or
deleting, or making commits. And here we
get a nice breakdown of when this is
useful. We're working with AI here, so
we can just ask stupid zero judgment
questions that might have already been
explained in the previous prompt, right?
Ask stupid questions, validate your
assumptions, learn fast, and move even
faster. Can plan mode create or modify
any files? Let's say like plan MD, can
you modify that? So, I'm just being
super super clear with cloud code. I
want it to repeat things back to me.
After all, we are operating in plan
mode, so this is what it's for. No, plan
mode cannot create or modify any files,
including plan.MD. So, this is really
about building up the context window
inside of cloud code. There's no
actions. There's no mutations happening
here, right? So, let's be totally clear
here. So I'll say so the purpose of plan
mode read files understand the codebase
by loading
your context window with important
information
before we start working then switch out
and edit correct me if I'm wrong. I like
to use this correct me if I'm wrong to
decrease sickle fancy basically decrease
the bias in the model and present a more
neutral question format. These models
love to tell you exactly what you want
to hear because it's good for business
for these AI labs. So, you have to be
really clear. So, I like to use this.
Correct me if I'm wrong. It's just a
little bit more neutral. You can see
cloud code validating exactly what we
were saying. Yes, you're exactly right.
That's a perfect understanding of plan
mode's purpose. It's research and
planning phase where I load, analyze,
design, present, then after you approve,
exit, execute, and then we run all the
commands so on and so forth. Right? This
is really interesting. Notice how claw
code is converging on the senior
engineers developer workflow. First, we
understand the feature by gathering the
right information. We build up the state
space of the problem and the solution.
And only then do we start building.
Before plan mode, we'd have to do
something like this, right? You have
your long prompt and then we say
something like this, right? Don't write,
update, or delete anything. Just read
and plan. So with two shift tabs, we can
immediately just enable that prompt
modification. Planning mode means you
can focus on priming your agent with the
right context before getting work done.
Great. So we have this new plan mode.
Let's put it to work.
I'm going to open up cursor here and
let's enhance our previous proof of
concept codebase, the infinite agentic
loop. In this codebase, you can have
claw code generate infinite versions of
a solution to your problem until it
breaks. Let's go ahead open up a new
terminal window here. Fire up clog.
We'll make sure we're running the
state-of-the-art model opus 4. I'm going
to run a prime command to get our
context window loaded with key
information about this codebase. You can
check out the prime command inside of
the custom slash command. This is a
really simple one. We're just running
get ls files and we're having cloud code
read a couple of files. So you can also
see we have claw.md added to this
directory. So claw code is now primed.
I'll hit shift tab tab. And now we're in
plan mode. In the beginning I mentioned
there are two ways to use plan mode. You
can plan then write code or you can plan
write the plan to a spec file and then
have cloud code execute on the spec that
you created. Four out of five times. I
recommend the second technique
specifically for mid to largesized
features which you should be aiming for.
We have more than enough compute and
intelligent models in great tools. So
aim big, hand off more work to your
agent. Do more in single swings to save
time and understand how far you can
really push these models and these
tools. So right now our infinite agentic
loop set up in this codebase. If we open
up source or source infinite, you can
see they're generating single files. And
in our previous video, we looked at
these UIs, we can quickly just take a
look at one of these. If I open up UI
hybrid one, copy the path to this, and I
just type Chrome this inside of bash
mode, which you can trigger inside of
cloud code with the bang or the
exclamation. You know, you can take a
look at this. Basically, we're just
generating infinite UIs that could do
many different things. If I go to two,
you can see here's another one. Here's
another one. Right? So, we just
generated all of these interesting user
interfaces.
Right? Here's another kind of wild one.
Here's another. Right? We can go, you
know, we had tons and tons of these
generated. If if you open up these
directories, you can see all of them.
You can check these out yourself. Okay.
So, we ran a prompt that generated a ton
of UIs inside of a single HTML file.
Okay. So, very cool. What we're going to
do here is update our lower level prompt
that we passed into our infinite agentic
loop prompt and we're going to have
cloud code plan out exactly what we want
done here. So what we're doing here is
effectively metaprompting. I'm writing a
prompt that's going to write a prompt
that is a plan aka a spec. What I want
to do here is just something simple. I
want to showcase the power of plan mode.
And instead of writing single
self-contained HTML files, what we'll do
is we'll break them up into their own
isolated directory with a CSS.js and
HTML file. Okay? And then we're going to
embed all that in a new plan. So let's
go ahead and get to work there. And all
we need to do is be concise and write a
great prompt. So I'll say let's plan
specs V3. And I'll say V4. So I'm going
to update that. That's what we want to
generate. We want to build on specs v3.
I'm using clause autocomplete here with
the at@ symbol, but instead of writing a
singlehtml
file split into CSS.js.html,
we also want to store these three files
unique directory. All right. And that's
it. So in plan mode, Claude Code is now
going to get to work filling up its own
context window with the information it
needs to plan this workout. Okay, so
we're going to kick this off. I'm going
to leave open the specs directory.
Nothing is going to get created here,
right? This is all going into Cloud
Codes context window. It's not going to
create or modify anything, right? Just
like it told us here, just like we
learned by prompting and asking
questions against Cloud Code. So let's
go ahead and take a look at this. It's
reading context. It's figuring things
out. It's understanding what it needs to
do to build out this V4 spec, right? So,
it has a clear understanding of
requirements and now it's going to
present a plan. And so, this is quite
interesting, right? It's planning inside
of its own context window. It's just
looking at your codebase, gathering
information, reading files, right? It's
all read. There's no mutations, there's
no create, there's no update, there's no
deletes. It's a very safe mode. And very
importantly, this mirrors the beginning
of a senior engineer's process, right?
We plan, work first, we architect, we
think, we plan, and only then do we
build. So let's see what we have here.
It's walking through based on my
analysis. Here's a comprehensive plan.
So this looks decent. You can see it has
this key changes from V3 to V4. Each
iteration creates its own all CSS,
alljs. Perfect. So this looks good. Now
I want to ask a question here about the
implementation. There's one key detail.
I want to make sure every version that
we're going to generate with the
infinite agentic loop gets their own
directory with those three files. So I'm
just going to be super clear here and
showcase you know how you can use plan
mode. So we're basically talking with
the cloud 4 opus model running on claw
code to be clear. showcase what the
output durest
mark directory looks like after running
three agents. And so output directory is
going to be part of our arguments, part
of our variables inside of our infinite
agentic loop prompt. And so I'm
referencing this variable here, which is
where all the iterations will be saved.
So I'm going to kick this off. I want to
be super clear about what's going on.
And importantly, this conversation we're
having is getting added to the context
window. Right? So, check this out. This
is exactly what I wanted to see. Right?
Scroll up. You can see output dur right
there. However, that gets defined in the
infinite prompt, right? As a variable.
We then are getting our own separate
versions. And this is exactly what I
want to see. I'm just proving things out
uh with cloud code, right? I'm planning
with cloud code with powerful
intelligence. all my abilities, all your
abilities, they're now augmented by
cloud code, by Agenta coding tools, and
by these models. So, make sure you can
tap into it, right? Planning mode really
helps us tap into this. So, let's go
ahead and kick this off. I'm going to
get out of plan mode. So, I'm going to
run shift tab, shift tab. I want to get
into autoaccept yolo mode. And now we'll
let cloud code rip build the v4 spec
mirror v3. and be clear about the
improvements
we are making. And I'll throw in a think
hard to trigger the reasoning model
here. This is awesome. So, we're going
to get our new V4 spec out of this.
Okay. So, the important thing here is
that we're having Cloud Code write a new
plan. There's a big problem with if we
just said, you know, build out write the
code for this, right? We can't see the
full plan without consistently prompting
Claude code. And remember, agents are
ephemeral. What does that mean? They're
temporary. They're stateless. Their
context window will be blown away. So,
we can improve on plan mode by having it
write out the full plan into the specs
directory, one of the three essential
directories for agentic coding. Okay.
And then we can once this plan is
written here, we can review it, we can
iterate on it, we can tweak it, and we
can commit it to our repository, which
has many downstream positive side
effects. We'll dig into future videos.
Make sure you're subscribed so you don't
miss out on actionable agentic coding
ideas like this. As you can see, week
after week, there's a lot of value we
can create with powerful agentic coding
tools like cloud code. So, we're going
to get the spec here written. It's
activated the reasoning model. We use
the think hard information dense keyword
encoded by the cloud code team. Where
was that? Let me search for that. Up
here. Yeah, right here. Right. I said
think hard and this triggers the
reasoning model. Right now, Claude 4
Opus is running its thinking process,
making sure that everything's super
clear. You can see very importantly,
we're mirroring again another IDK right
there. We're mirroring the V4 structure,
but adapt it for the multifile approach.
This is key. And while it's loading
here, we can open up, you know, UI V3.
Again, definitely check out the previous
video to really understand the infinite
agentic prompt and what's really going
on here. But, you know, you can see just
at a high level what exactly is going
on, right? We're generating uniquely
themed UI components that combine
multiple UIs into one elegant solution.
So that's what we're doing there. And
you can see we just got V4 created for
us here. 360 lines. Let's go ahead and
open it up and make sure it makes sense.
Okay. So themed hybrid UI specification
V4 looks awesome. Builds on V3 with a
critical architectural improvement,
separation of concerns, new modular file
structure. Great. And so I just want to
quickly look through this plan and I
want to see this key detail right here.
output requirements directory structure
UI hybrid iteration number very
important right this differentiates it
from v3 where we just use the iteration
number from the infinite agentic loop
and then we just create thehtml here
we're creating the directory fantastic
looks great I'm catching cloud code here
before it makes a mistake I'm going to
hit escape uh this is one of the you
know great reasons to see the thinking
of your model it was about to create an
updated infinite command which we don't
need at all this is good I'm going to
stop it right here then I'm going to
boot up another agent here. Open up a
new cloud code agent and we're just
going to kick this off. Right? So, this
plan looks good. It has all the details
from V3, right? We just built on the V3
spec. And so, now we're going to kick
off this infinite agentic workflow with
our new plan. Just to kind of hop back
into that idea from last week, this is
the power of having higher order
prompts. What does that mean? It's just
like higher order functions where in
certain programming languages, you can
pass a function into a function. We're
doing that same thing here with auntic
coding and with prompt engineer. We're
passing a prompt into a prompt, right?
The infinite prompt takes a prompt as a
parameter that it can operate in. Okay,
there's a ton of value here. We're just
scratching the surface of what can be
done with higher order prompts. More on
that later. Again, make sure to
subscribe so you don't miss that. Let's
go ahead and kick this off. Right, so
there's V3. Let's close that and let's
kick off V4 in our new Cloud Code
instance. Check the model. We always
like that big beefy opus model. And
let's go ahead and kick this off, right?
So slash um infinite. This is a custom
slash command inside of the directory.
We'll hit tab. And now we need a couple
of arguments. So we can go ahead and
sync these up. We need the spec file v4.
We need our output directory source
group. And then we need count. How many
iterations are we going to run? Uh let's
just fire off 10. We're going to have 10
new versions here created. Let's go
ahead and fire this off. Now our
infinite agentic loop is going to read
the spec output to the source group
based on whatever is inside of our spec
and it's going to create 10 versions.
Let's go ahead and let this rip. And
we're doing all this thanks to planning,
right? This is all thanks to plans. We
have plans on plans, right?
Custom/comands. Then we have our specs,
right? Another prompt. We had, you know,
cloud code in plan mode, right?
Thinking, building up context. So much
of what we do as engineers in the
generative AI age in this kind of second
phase is all about building up
information sets and organizing
information for our agents and really
understanding what our agents can do.
There we go. You can see we have two
waves. We're going to run in two
batches. Wave one is going to create
five agents. Wave two is going to create
five agents as well. You can see their
themes. And now cloud code and opus mode
is going to kick off five agents in
parallel. Again, once you finish this
video, check out the previous one to
really understand the infinite agentic
loop prompt. Here's the magical moment
we've all been waiting for. We're going
to get five parallel agents kicked off
and they're going to start working for
us. There we go.
So, you can see we have that new
directory and we also have those five
new agents running in parallel here.
Let's go and just open all these
directories up preemptively and we're
going to be able to watch all of these
parallel cloud code agents work together
to accomplish every version of this
task. Okay? And so if somehow you've
been watching this channel and you
haven't been convinced of the importance
of the fundamental principle of AI
coding, great planning is great
prompting. You should absolutely be
convinced now. Okay. a leading AI lab
ghost launched and used the tab key for
the feature for quick access. It might
seem like I'm micro analyzing, but this
is what great engineering is, right?
Every detail matters. Every product
decision matters and every product
decision says something. All right, so
you can see five agents running in
parallel doing their own isolated pieces
of work based on our plans. um you know
principal ad coding members and
subscribers of the channel you've
already known about planning and
architect editor prompt chains and you
know that key principle that the plan is
the prompt right we've known this for
some time now you already have this
deployed into production you're already
using this in cloud code every single
day this is just a new you know mode of
operating for us as engineers now right
but if you're just hearing about this
principle of a coding the plan is the
prompt check out principled AI coding to
learn the other Seven principles of AI
coding link in the description. This is
fantastic, right? This is working for us
on our behalf. We have five agents here.
Everyone's up to two tool uses. It's
probably going to be three each and then
we'll be able to dive in and actually
look at what's going on here. Okay, so
it looks like hybrid v2 is coming around
the corner here. This is exactly what
we've detailed in our plan. And thanks
to Cloud Code in plan mode here, right,
shift tab, shift tab, uh, we were able
to very quickly load up its context
window with a couple key details, right?
Very concise prompts. You don't have to
type a lot. You don't have to do a lot
with these great tools, but you do need
to know exactly what to say and what to
ask. We focus on these key ideas of
writing concise prompts on the channel
all the time. All right, so it looks
like all of our versions are getting
filled out here. You can see task two
complete, task three complete. Both
agents had four tool uses each. They
both consumed about, you know, 40k of
Opus tokens. That means there's a lot of
value in these tokens, right? Uh 3
minutes each. Not too bad. All right.
And all of our other tasks are now
complete. These should all be, you know,
ready for us to operate in. Now, our
agent, you know, running about 400
seconds here. 5.2K tokens on the top
level agent. Um and now we're going to
kick off wave two. So, I'm going to stop
it here. I I want these tokens for some
other engineering work. But you can see
it's going to kick off wave two here.
I'm going to go ahead and stop it here.
And let's just go ahead and look at our
results here. Right. So I can type um
Chrome. Let's open up one of these
files. Copy the reference with command
shift R. And I'll just paste that here.
This is going to open up our brand new
index script style. Still with that key
prompt of generating interesting new UI.
So let's go ahead and kick this off and
check this out. Right. Uh nature's
answers. Uh plant your search seed. Very
interesting. All right. So, we have this
interesting search bar here. We have a
filter. Interesting UI there. Let's go
on to number two. And remember, these
were all generated in parallel. So, this
is another interesting one that's going
to validate as we type. And phone
number, credit card. You see we have
complete progress at the bottom. This is
a really clean minimalist UI. Looks
great. Let's look at V3. Okay. And V4.
Okay. Very cool. We have like a music
player in this kind of retro neon style.
Okay. So there's more versions here. You
get the point. Um the prompt or should I
say the prompts and this prompt system
uh that we have with the infinite
agentic loop. It's doing all this work
for us. This is very powerful. This is
all thanks to planning as a you know key
engineering concept that's been embedded
inside of Cloud Code, the best agentic
coding tool in the game right now. This
codebase is going to be available to you
in the description just as last week.
I'm going to add this new spec here. And
I'll leave source group in here as well.
Planning is a key element of software
engineering. First, we think, then we
plan, and then we build. All with our
agentic coding tools. There's a tectonic
shift happening in the engineering world
right now. The winning engineers and
teams are setting up their code bases
and tools, not for themselves, but for
their agents. You know where to find me
every single Monday. Stay focused and
keep building.